[THEME MUSIC]
>>And I think many
people today don't
know what to believe anymore.
>>People are basically
going to keep on
to help uncover what
really happened.
>>I felt like something
was watching me.
>>We weren't given
all the information.
We weren't told
the entire story.
>>GEORGE NOORY: Oh, do we
have a program for you tonight
on "Beyond Belief."
Welcome, I'm George Noory.
And our special guest, retired
Lieutenant Colonel Kevin
Randle.
Kevin is a noted UFO researcher.
As a matter of fact, his
latest work, "The UFO Dossier,"
is about incredible UFO
stories and government secrets.
And here he is on
"Beyond Belief."
Kevin, good to have you with us.
>>KEVIN RANDLE: Thank you.
Glad to be here.
>>NOORY: How did you get
involved in UFO research?
>>RANDLE: I always
blame my mother.
>>NOORY: Ah-ha!
Mom did it.
She did it to me, too.
>>RANDLE: She had an
interest in science fiction.
Science fictions about alien
beings, interstellar travel,
life on other worlds,
and it's not a great step
from that into UFOs.
So I blame her for getting--
sparking my interest in that.
In fact, she took me to a
movie, "Earth versus the Flying
Saucers," when I was
just a little kid.
So that sort of did it.
>>NOORY: You and I were
both born on June 4.
Your mother got you
interested in UFOs.
My mother got me
She brought me home
a book called "We Are
Not Alone" by Walter Sullivan.
>>RANDLE: I've read it.
>>NOORY: A "New York Times"
science writer at the time.
I was obsessed with things.
And then "Look"
magazine came out
with the "Interrupted Journey,"
the Barney and Betty Hill case,
the New Hampshire
abduction case.
And after that, I was hooked.
So our moms played a huge
role in our development.
>>RANDLE: Yes, absolutely.
>>NOORY: As you evolved
into this, of course,
you know, you're
in the military.
You've been in Iraq.
You're a retired
lieutenant colonel.
Were you dabbling with
UFOs at that time?
I always kept my eye
open, but I never
really ran into
anything interesting
while I was in the military.
>>RANDLE: When I was an
intelligence officer,
they had something called
the Weekly Intelligence
Brief, which was kind
of classified stuff,
but some of it was unclassified.
And periodically, a UFO
sighting would show up in there,
and it was always unclassified.
It was a flight crew.
And the one I remember was
they were approaching Japan
and had seen something.
Not a really
spectacular sighting,
but something that appeared in
the Weekly Intelligence Brief.
But I really never saw
anything about UFOs
while I was in the military.
And I kept my eyes open to
see if something would lead me
in that direction.
Since then, talking
to people that I
met in the military
and others, I've
gotten a few clues about what
to look for and where to go.
In the documentation that's been
released in the last 10 years
from the military, I'm
able to understand it
at a level that's some of the
other researchers who have not
had military experience are
unable to understand it.
So I understand
things about it that
is helpful in learning
more about UFOs.
>>NOORY: When you
were in the Army,
did anybody else talk
to you about UFOs?
>>RANDLE: Oh, absolutely.
In fact, while I was in Iraq, we
had a first Sergeant named Gil.
And he would talk
to me periodically
and call me the UFO guy.
And he was very interested--
>>NOORY: The UFO guy.
>>RANDLE: He was very
interested in NASCAR.
So how would you like to be
addressed as a NASCAR guy?
So that kind of ended that.
But yeah, they would talk to me.
And I was out in the company
area one day and these two NCOs
came up and said, do you
have a younger brother?
And I said what do you mean?
They said, well,
we saw a guy that
looked an awful lot like
you on a history documentary
just last night with
the same last name.
I said, well, that was
probably me 10 years ago.
>>NOORY: That's right.
That's right.
You are one of the most
prolific researchers and authors
in this field, and you take
this pretty darn seriously,
don't you?
>>RANDLE: I think
of it as something
that's very important.
I also think about what I would
consider committing is UFO
suicide simply because I
cannot embrace everything.
If there's some case that
gets a lot of publicity,
and I think that there's a
rational explanation for it,
I have to embrace
the explanation.
And I think too many
of the researchers
just embrace everything and
just look at the surface.
I try to go beyond
that, deeper into it,
to see if I can find
a solution for a case.
Because if we're going to
prove that alien visitation is
extraterrestrial, we're going
to have to look at that evidence
from multiple points of view
to see if we can establish
multiple chains of evidence--
witness testimony, interaction
with the environment, landing
traces, radio or EM effects,
radar trackings.
All of that stuff has
to be brought to bare.
>>NOORY: We have been dealing
with several eras of UFO study.
The ancient ones where
Zecharia Sitchin got involved
and then the modern UFO cases
that a lot of people think
started when Kenneth
Arnold saw his UFOs in 1947
and Roswell occurred in 1947.
You think otherwise.
>>RANDLE: I think
the case can be
made that the modern era
began during World War II
with the Foo Fighters.
And if you take a
look at the history--
now Keith Chester has
done a wonderful book
about that called
"Strange Company."
And he found documentation
and interviewed
people who were involved
in this sort of thing.
So we know that
this was something
that was extremely important
to the Allied command
during World War II.
If the Nazis, the
Japanese, were developing
some sort of secret
weapon, and that's
what they thought the
foo fighters might be,
they needed to be
able to counter that.
So they were very
deeply involved
in investigating these things
and very concerned about them.
When the war ended, of
course, that priority
ended as well, because there's
no longer that pressure.
But one of the guys that
was involved in that
was a fellow named
Colonel Howard McCoy.
Within a year, there
with the ghost rockets
flying over Scandinavia
mainly but into Europe
and other areas, and they
were very worried about that.
Thought it might be some
kind of a Soviet attempt
to intimidate
Sweden, for example.
A lot of those sightings--
the Swedish military
was very concerned about it.
They asked for assistance from
the United States and Great
Britain.
But they had to do it
kind of behind the scenes
because they didn't want
to alienate the Soviet
Union with that kind of thing.
One of the guys very deeply
involved in that investigation
was Colonel Howard McCoy.
When we get to December
of 1946, now we're
six months prior
to Kenneth Arnold,
McCoy gets a call during
their Christmas party,
early December of
1946, to set up
an investigation of UFOs--
an unofficial investigation
of the UFOs.
When Arnold's side had broke and
they decided to go officially,
then that became the
official investigation.
The guy that was called to
do that was Howard McCoy.
When you get to
September of 1947
and Twining issues
his letter that said,
this is something that's
not visionary or fictitious,
the guy who actually drafted
that letter was Howard McCoy.
So the whole thing begins
with the foo fighters,
and we have this string that
connects it all, showing
an American intelligence
interest from the foo fighters,
to the ghost rockets,
prior to Arnold,
into what's called
the modern era.
>>NOORY: OK.
Explain what the
foo fighters were.
>>RANDLE: Foo fighters
were mostly balls of fire,
but there were some
sightings of solid craft.
And these would intercept our
bomber formations, our fighter
formations, during World War II.
And they would follow along,
nobody knew what they were,
but they thought it
might be some kind
of an anti-aircraft weapon being
developed mainly by the Nazis,
but there were foo fighter
sightings in the Pacific,
in the China Burma
India theater as well.
But they were most
mostly balls of light
following our aircraft.
Len Stringfield--
>>NOORY: Like orbs?
>>RANDLE: Orbs, that kind of
thing, glowing balls of fire.
But at times they
would see solid craft.
Len Stringfield, who had
done a lot of work-- very--
>>NOORY: God rest
his soul, right?
>>RANDLE: Yes, absolutely.
But a-- but a
well-respected ufologist.
As he was going to Japan
right after World War II,
he was on one of
the first airplanes
to go into Japan after the
Japanese had surrendered.
Near Iwo Jima, his aircraft was
approached by three objects.
The engines began
cutting out, and they
were preparing to ditch until
the objects left, flew off
into the distance.
So there's one of the
first electromagnetic cases
where something approached
close enough to interfere
with the electrical
systems of the aircraft.
So they were mainly
just the orbs,
but there were other sightings
embedded in that as well.
>>NOORY: Were there
any cases, Kevin,
where these craft, or orbs,
or whatever they were, truly
engaged with our craft to
do something destructive?
>>RANDLE: I have seen
nothing to suggest that,
but I do know that our guys
fired on them frequently.
>>NOORY: Not smart.
>>RANDLE: Well, they
didn't know what they were.
And anything approaching
you in that environment
is considered the enemy.
>>NOORY: You fire.
>>RANDLE: You fire at it.
And they would report that
sometimes the bullets seemed
to go through them.
Sometimes the bullets
seem to be absorbed.
And sometimes the
bullets would bounce off.
So we've got a wide variety
of things going on there.
But it was something
that was of great concern
to the Allied command
during the Second World War.
>>NOORY: What was going on in
the '40s-- besides the war--
that would get "them"
interested in what
was happening on this planet?
>>RANDLE: If you look
at what Carl Sagan said,
he said that we could
expect one visit
from an alien-- visit
of alien civilization
every 10,000 years.
Well, when do you
start counting?
>>NOORY: Right.
>>RANDLE: If you visited
10,000 years ago,
you would find a planet that
is not very industrialized,
mainly an agrarian
society, but it's got
the beginnings of civilization.
Wouldn't you then
take great interest
in that society or that planet?
If you visited
sometime later, you'd
begin to see civilization
spreading over the globe.
You would see all
these things going on.
That would induce you
to visit more often,
to keep eyes on these guys.
As we move into the
Industrial Revolution,
and we begin to develop a
capability of moving off
the planet's surface, and
they see our very warlike
propensities, it
might induce them
to keep a closer eye on it.
So that they would have
shown up during that time
and see us engaged
in this world war
that ended up with the
atomic bombs being used.
That would induce them
to come more frequently.
So that might be the inducement.
But there, again, we're dealing
with an alien civilization.
And I'm not sure that we can
deduce from our point of view
what an alien might do.
>>NOORY: Your latest
work, of course,
is called "The UFO Dossier."
>>RANDLE: Yes.
>>NOORY: Tell me
about this work.
>>RANDLE: That is kind of a
follow on to the "Government
UFO Secrets," where I
propose the idea that we've
got this continuous
investigation going on
from the 1940s.
This looks at it from a more
worldwide point of view,
but it also talks
about the cases
where people have been injured.
Most of the injuries
are the result
of people getting too close
to the object, not something
that the object
has done to them--
with a couple of exceptions.
It looks at what other
governments have done.
And one of the things that
just struck me as absolutely
hilarious was the Australians
were very interested in UFOs,
and they had a high level
politician to report on UFOs.
And he quoted from
Donald Keyhoe.
So the Australian
government contacted--
or the Australian Air
Force contacted our force--
they said, ah, you can't believe
anything Keyhoe has to say
and took that as the
official government policy
and followed the same path
that the United States Air
Force did.
>>NOORY: I thought Keyhoe
was pretty credible.
>>RANDLE: Keyhoe turns out
to be extremely credible.
But at the time
this was going on,
Keyhoe was being marginalized
by the United States Air Force.
Because he had a
lot of stuff right--
>>NOORY: Didn't he form NICAP,
the National Investigations
Committee on Aerial Phenomena?
>>RANDLE: Yes.
He was really very,
very instrumental
in the beginning of NICAP.
Their organizational
philosophy, I guess,
was more looking at the
government cover up.
APRO, which was done
by the Lorenzens,
was more looking at
gathering UFO cases.
So it's kind of two
different organizations
with two different
points of view,
studying sort of
the same phenomenon.
But what struck me is Keyhoe
had said during the Levelland
sightings over 1957-- that's
where the craft got close
to the ground, interfered with--
>>NOORY: Great sighting.
>>RANDLE: --interfered
with vehicles
and that sort of thing.
Keyhoe said there were
nine witnesses to that.
The Air Force said, no,
there were only three.
They get into this big fight
over the number of witnesses.
If you go back to the
Project Blue Book files,
you find out witnesses
at 13 separate locations
reported some kind of
activity with the UFO.
Had they investigated that case,
either the Air Force or NICAP
or APRO or somebody investigated
that case at that time,
we'd probably be having a
different discussion now.
Because here is an opportunity
to really get some answers.
But they were so busy arguing
about philosophies and numbers
of witnesses, it took
it off in a tangent,
which I guess is a typical
political strategy.
If I don't like the
question you ask,
I'll try to divert
it to something else.
>>NOORY: Well, good work in
this-- "The UFO Dossier."
>>RANDLE: Well, thank you.
>>NOORY: We need more and
more stories like that.
There are some great
researchers out
there who have done
dedicated work like you have,
Kevin, that try to get
answers to this subject.
We seem to get really
close but not close enough.
Steve Bassett and I
argue-- Steve, of course,
working on government
disclosure.
I don't think it's
coming from government.
I think it's going to
come from whistleblowers,
like the astronauts, and
pilots, and insiders.
I don't think it's going
to come from government.
What do you think?
>>RANDLE: I don't
think it's going
to come from the
whistleblower's either.
I think it's going to
come from the aliens.
>>NOORY: Oh, really?
>>RANDLE: At which point,
there's nothing we can do.
If they land and say, here
we are, here's our craft,
here's where we come from.
That's it.
The discussion is over.
But you see whistleblowers
come forward,
and it doesn't matter what
context that whistleblower
is in-- whether it's
UFOS or something else--
the government moved to
smear that whistleblower.
And we've seen that
time and time again
when interesting bits of
intelligence, if you will,
have come out that
the government wished
hadn't come out.
And so we see them
smearing the people
rather than
addressing the issues.
And so I think
disclosure is not going
to come from anything
from the government,
unless we happen to find a
bunch of documents by mistake.
And that was how we learned
about project Moon Dust.
>>NOORY: Right.
Good point.
>>RANDLE: The State
Department inadvertently
released a batch
of documents to-- I
think it was Robert Todd.
And there were some
marked Project Moon Dust.
And he began looking
into Moon Dust.
I know Bruce Maccabee
also looked into that.
Well, I was writing
"Government UFO Files,"
I've got a complete set of
the Project Blue Book files
on microfilm.
And I'm scanning through
it looking for a sighting,
and I thought I saw the
words Moon Dust go by.
And I stopped and went back,
and I found four cases right
around September of 1960.
In the Project
Blue Book files it
said-- it said Moon Dust cases.
>>NOORY: Right there.
>>RANDLE: And I'm
thinking, these things
had been out for 10 years
before Todd got the message.
>>NOORY: He just couldn't
tie them together.
>>RANDLE: And they had
been out, and nobody
had found this reference
until I inadvertently
accidentally found it in there.
The cases are really bad cases.
They're just-- they're probably
meteors or something like that,
but they're marked
Moon Dust, which
is very relevant the fact
they're marked Moon Dust.
There's a letter in the Blue
Book files that also gives us
the beginning of Moon Dust,
which is December of 1957.
So when you hear this
other stuff about it,
that's based on the best
guess of the researchers.
But we've now got a letter
from the Project Blue Book
files from December
talking about the creation
of Moon Dust.
>>NOORY: Amazing.
We've got a series of videos
I want to look at and get
your reaction to them.
Nick Pope, of course,
our dear friend--
>>RANDLE: Yes.
>>NOORY: Former
member of the Ministry
of Defense in Great Britain.
The Ministry of Defense seems
to be releasing a few more
documents on UFOs
Let's take a look.
>>NARRATOR: According to the
UFO files, in August 1990,
two hikers were walking in
the Scottish highlands close
to Calvine, north of Pitlochry.
Suddenly, they saw
something incredible.
It was a chance for the
picture of a lifetime.
The hikers immediately contacted
journalists from the "Scottish
Daily Record" newspaper.
After viewing their
photos, the journalists
chose to share both
pictures and negatives
with the Ministry of Defense.
The UFO desk files say
that the images were then
analyzed by the best
team in the business.
>>NICK POPE: The Defense
Intelligence staff
sent these images
to JARIC, that's
the Joint Air Reconnaissance
and Intelligence Center.
Now, this is the UK's military
training center of expertise
when it comes to
imagery analysis.
>>NARRATOR: They identified a
small jet in the background.
But the large, diamond-shaped
craft in the foreground
defied classification.
>>POPE: These
intelligence personnel
come to the conclusion that
these photographs are real.
It's a solid craft.
And no one has the
faintest idea what it is.
>>NARRATOR: At the
time, Nick Pope
was a junior member
of the UFO team.
He remembers the response
of the MOD's top UFO expert.
>>POPE: He started
gesticulating.
And he said, well, we know
it's not the Americans,
and he pointed his
finger that way.
And he flipped it the
other way and he said,
it's not the Russians.
And he said, that only leaves.
>>NOORY: So I love,
Kevin, how Nick
pointed up as if, oh, boy,
this is where they came from.
There was no Photoshop
in those days.
That must've been
an incredible case.
>>RANDLE: If you take a look
at that, the history of UFOs,
you look at the pictures taken
earlier in the 19-- late 1940s,
1950s, 1960s, you
find out 90% of them
were taken by teenage boys,
and 90% of them are hoaxed.
But there are an awful
lot of very good pictures
that have not been explained,
and that-- that's just
another example of that.
The McMinnville
sighting from 1950
taken by two farmers in that
area-- a farmer and his wife.
You've got movie
footage taken first
in Great Falls, Montana
that shows the object-- two
objects moving across the sky.
You've got the Tremonton,
Utah film taken
by a Navy ward officer in 1952.
And you're knowing that if
you're taking movie footage,
these guys would
have had to have
some kind of a
special effects lab
to be able to fake that stuff.
But you also see them working
very hard-- and not necessarily
the British, but of course,
in the American instance--
to suggest
explanations for that.
And they'll find something
that sort of fits,
and they'll say, well,
that must be what it is.
The Great Falls,
Montana film-- well,
that was two fighter
planes in the area.
Well, why don't they
ever resolve themselves
so we can see that they're
not these glowing objects
moving across the skyline?
In the Tremonton, Utah
they say, well, it
was birds soaring on thermos.
And I'm thinking-- seagulls--
>>NOORY: They always have
an excuse for something.
>>RANDLE: Yeah.
But I think that explanation
has been around forever.
And I think every time I go
out driving around or looking
around, and I've done
this for decades,
looking at formations
of birds to see
if they resolve themselves
in the period of time
these things were on that
film, and they always have.
It's not something
you-- you can see
for two and a half,
three minutes and say,
I don't know what
the heck that is.
They always resolve
themselves in some fashion.
So we get to the Ministry
of Defense in Great Britain,
and I see them doing the same
things that the United States
Air Force did, probably somewhat
in collusion with the United
States Air Force--
>>NOORY: Had to be.
>>RANDLE: --taking their notes
from the United States Air
Force.
But you see this sort
of thing going on.
Nobody wants to come
out publicly and say,
I saw a flying saucer.
Because when they do that,
it impacts their careers.
>>NOORY: And to me
it sounds like what
we're dealing with--
physical-- physical craft
from other planetary systems.
I mean, people will say they're
coming from other dimensions.
They're demons.
They're coming from
a hollow Earth.
I think they're coming from
other planetary systems.
>>RANDLE: I do, too.
But I also look at some of
these other explanations,
because some of
them are fun-- time
travelers from Earth's future.
>>NOORY: Love it.
>>RANDLE: Yeah, absolutely.
Love that one.
Could they be inter-dimensional?
Absolutely they could be.
The evidence suggests they're
solid beings, solid craft
coming from other
worlds in our galaxy
and probably our
portion of the galaxy
given the vast distances.
Unless there's a way to defeat
these vast distances that we're
not aware of, I mean, that's
kind of what it suggests to us.
>>NOORY: In May of 2015, a
couple great UFO researchers,
I think, got duped.
There was a huge story that
they had in their possession
slides of actual
pictures-- when we had
slides-- of extraterrestrials.
Let's take a look at that video.
>>JAIME MAUSSEN:
We have hybrids.
It's a very-- the two cases,
even though the creatures
are different, they
have some similitude,
like the size--
20-- 20 centimeters,
around 20 centimeters, or
let's say seven, eight inches.
And you have this DNA
somehow very similar,
demonstrating some kind
of experiment-- hybrids
that are being
created here on Earth.
There are many questions--
why, who did it?
But you have the
evidence right there.
I have it in my position.
But it's very
difficult to advance.
I have six different
analyses of DNA.
And we cannot prove this,
because nobody is willing
to take it exactly with that
kind of creature, you know?
To take it to a different level.
But you have two
cases, physical,
where it's physical
evidence that could
prove that we are not alone.
I believe those
are smoking guns.
There are many others,
but right there you
have these cases and this
evidence that proved that there
is something going on.
>>NOORY: So Kevin,
that was Jaime Maussan
from some other cases that
he has been working on.
But the creatures were very
similar to some of the pictures
we saw on those slides.
>>RANDLE: What you
see in the slide
that they had in Mexico is--
well, in fact, it's a mummy.
But there's mummies from
around the world that have
the same sort of look to them.
So-- so when, I
think, Tom and Don
had an opportunity to
see scans of the slides,
and it was suggested to them
what this was, they were-- they
attempted to validate that.
But the being in the slides
does have an alien look to it--
>>NOORY: Yeah.
There's no-- no doubt.
>>RANDLE: --when you look at it.
>>NOORY: It looks like the
little creature Steven Greer
has been running around with.
>>RANDLE: Yes.
Yes.
So-- so when they're
presented with this--
and they went to Kodak to
validate the slide image-- not
the image but the slide.
>>NOORY: The slides themselves.
>>RANDLE: The slides themselves.
They found out that the slide
holder was from the proper era,
and apparently testing
on the chemicals used
for the creation of the film
and the developing process
was from the late 1940s.
So they were able
to date the slides
to the proper era,
which, of course, doesn't
make the image in it
an alien creature.
It just means the photograph
was taken in the proper time.
And I think that also
suggested to them
that they're dealing
with something that had
to do with the Roswell case.
>>NOORY: When people are
duped or that there are some,
you know, fraud
involved from people,
does that hurt the field?
Does that destroy things that
people like you who are honest,
hardworking, no
nonsense researchers,
does that screw that up for you?
>>RANDLE: Absolutely.
Remember, um, people know
who Bill Buckner is not
because he was a
great baseball player,
but because he missed
one ground ball.
And they remember that, and
it kind of follows his career.
That's what they know
about Bill Buckner.
So when you get into the UFO
field, which right there is
controversial enough, and
somebody is involved in a hoax,
whether it's the alien autopsy
or one of these other things,
people remember the
hoax and say, oh, well,
the whole thing is a fraud.
So anything like this hurts us.
Had-- I think had Don and Tom
not been so enthusiastic--
>>NOORY: And they were.
Because they came on
my show, the radio
show prior to, along
with Richard Dolan,
and I mean, you
would think, my god.
We finally got it.
>>RANDLE: Yes.
And I think-- I think Tom
more so than Don was really
wanting the evidence, the
solid proof, that Roswell
was extraterrestrial.
And he thinks, now I've got it.
And I-- I emailed
him in December
of this-- of last year.
And I was trying to
think of-- without having
seen the slides-- what
could it possibly be?
And the only things
I could think of
was it was some kind of creation
for a movie in the 1940s.
And I went through the
books I have on that suff--
>>NOORY: Good point.
>>RANDLE: --and look for it
and couldn't find anything.
I looked at magazine covers
from the 1940s science fiction,
and they went really weird.
And the other thing
I thought, well,
could it possibly
have been a mummy,
given that it was
supposedly found
in southern-- southeastern--
southwestern United States?
Could it have been a mummy?
And Tom wrote back,
no, it's not a mummy.
So we've looked at 500
images, it's not them.
And I think what Tom
was doing was looking
for that specific
image as opposed
to seeing how closely
their image matched
these other images as well.
I think he got-- just
got too enthusiastic
about the whole
thing, and I think
that's what kind
of led him astray.
Don has said to me that he was
believing what the experts were
saying, and some of the
experts were saying, well,
this is clearly not
a human of any kind.
And so he believed what
the experts were saying.
Unfortunately, within days
of the slides being released
so that everybody
could see them,
it was discovered that
this was a mummy that
had been on display in--
>>NOORY: Instantly people got--
>>RANDLE: --in a
Mesa Verde museum.
And coincidentally, the mummy
had been moved in May of 1947
to Montezuma's castle, which
is another museum in Arizona.
So they knew the pictures were
now taken part of May of 1947.
But it's clearly the pictures
were taken in this museum,
because the floor matches,
the other placards match.
You can see other displays
in the background.
But once-- but from
what Don told me,
he had never seen
the actual slides.
He and Tom and been
working from scans.
>>NOORY: Ah.
>>RANDLE: And had they'd
seen the actual slides--
>>NOORY: They might have known.
They might have known better.
>>RANDLE: Well, I
think the placard
would have been
read, because it was
read so easily when they got
a scan of sufficient quality.
And that was taken off
Adam Due's website.
The day after the
reveal in Mexico City,
he put up a better quality
scan on his website.
And that's what people
used to deblur the placard
to see what it said.
>>NOORY: Amazing.
We have a call from Cindy in
Fort Worth, Texas for you.
Let's see what Cindy has.
>>AUDIENCE: This is Cindy
in Fort Worth, Texas.
And I wanted to
know if Kevin thinks
there's a piece of
evidence that stands out
from the rest that shows
us that UFOs represent
alien visitation.
>>NOORY: Of course, that
is the $64,000 question.
>>RANDLE: And I think
there's a good answer for it,
and I think we talked about
it a little bit earlier,
and that would be
the Levelland case.
Because here you have all
these independent witnesses,
including law
enforcement who see it.
You've got the UFO interacting
with the environment,
stalling the car engines, and
there's a misnomer about that.
People think that the cars
restart spontaneously.
But if you go back and
you read the cases,
you realize that the driver did
something to start the engine.
The electromagnetic
field stalled the engine,
they had to restart it.
It didn't come
back spontaneously.
>>NOORY: Exactly.
Close encounters
of the third kind.
>>RANDLE: There is
discussion-- Don Burleson, who
went into Levelland in
2000 I think it was,
talked to the daughter
of the sheriff.
He said that there was a
landing trace, which nobody
had heard of prior to that.
And that's because the Air
Force moved in and shut
that sort of thing down.
Within hours, there was
another series of sightings
at White Sands Missile Range.
And there is now discussion that
one of those service members
was injured.
And the reason the Air
Force didn't interview him--
they interviewed
the other three--
they didn't interview him,
because he was in the hospital.
And nobody wanted to mention
that one of them was injured
and in the hospital.
I'm trying to
check that out now.
And I've spent months
trying to get the morning
reports from that
unit at that time,
because it'll tell
me where the guy was.
The explanation was he
was on a three-day pass.
Well, you know and I know
that a three-day pass
has a limited range you can go.
>>NOORY: That's right.
>>RANDLE: So that
you can get back.
>>NOORY: You've got to get back.
>>RANDLE: If you can get back.
And they don't want you trying
to make a long drive home
and getting killed
in a car wreck.
So had the guy been on a
three-day day pass and the Air
Force sends an officer
down to investigate,
they could have got the guy
back within a matter of hours
to interview.
So the question
is, why didn't they
interview him and
get his word as well?
So there's just this string
of sightings that took place
on November 2, November
3 of 1957 that is just
an incredible string
of sightings that
may have given us the answers.
But people were so busy arguing
about the number of witnesses
and that sort of
thing, that they
didn't get to the point of
really investigating the case.
>>NOORY: Amazing stuff.
You had mentioned the
Japanese Airlines case.
And I want us to look at a
video for a Japanese airlines
case that is pretty compelling.
>>NARRATOR: On
November 17, 1986,
a Boeing 747 cargo freighter
with Japan Airlines
was flying over Alaska en
route to Narita, Tokyo.
The pilot was Captain
Kenju Terauchi,
an ex-fighter pilot with
more than 10,000 hours
of flying experience.
With him were co-pilot
Takanori Tamefuji and flight
engineer Yoshio Tsukuba.
After entering Alaskan
airspace shortly after 5:00 PM,
Captain Terauchi noticed
two lights in the distance
keeping pace with the
plane, so that they
appeared to be standing still
from inside the cockpit.
Tamefuji radioed in to
Anchorage Air Centre in Alaska
to ask if there were any
aircraft in the area.
They said that there were not.
The apparent object
once again showed up
on the flight crew's radar and
an operator at Elmendorf Air
Force Base picked up
an uncorrelated target
in the plane's vicinity.
The operator watched the
target move around Flight 1628
at the exact time and
in the exact same manner
that Terauchi described while
viewing the object in person.
The radar operator in Anchorage
also picked up the target
at certain points
in the sighting.
The FAA control tower
requested that Terauchi
perform a 360-degree
turn in order
to see if the
object would follow.
The Elmendorf operator watched
this turn on his radar screen
and confirmed that the
unknown object trailed
the plane the entire
time then returned
to the same position in which
it had been before the turn.
>>NOORY: Kevin, that seems
like a pretty authentic case.
>>RANDLE: It's-- it's
one of the great cases,
because you have multiple
chains of evidence.
You have the sighting
by the witnesses.
You have credible witnesses
who are experienced airmen.
There is discussion of radar.
The FAA has a complete
set of the entire incident
on radar tapes.
And John Callahan, who
was the lead investigator
on that-- I've spoken to
him personally and talked
to him about that.
And he talked about how they had
been called to the White House
to present their evidence.
And once they were
done, he noted
there were a couple of
fellows from the CIA there.
And he was told by them--
we were never here.
Don't mention that.
But you've got a complete log
of everything that happened,
timed out, so that you can watch
it in real time, if you will.
And I mentioned that reporting
UFOs impact on your career.
>>NOORY: Of course.
>>RANDLE: Once that
sighting came out,
the captain was removed
from flying duty.
He was now flying a desk.
>>NOORY: They thought he
was drinking or something.
>>RANDLE: Yeah.
He couldn't be trusted.
You see the same thing
from Air Force pilots.
They don't want to report
UFOs for the same reason--
commercial pilots,
police officers.
Manuel Amparo, who saw
an object in California,
was burned by it.
The documentation shows
that he was burned.
A workman's compensation
claim was filed for him
to be compensated for this, so
you've got the documentation.
And I just got an email from
him in the last week about how
it had affected his career.
And he was not
promoted as he should
have been because
the sheriff didn't
like being involved with UFOs.
So you see it impacting
their careers.
I'm glad to say the captain
here got back to flying status,
and that was at the thanks
of a number of Americans
as well that helped
him get back--
>>NOORY: He's still out
there now doing this thing,
or is he retired now?
>>RANDLE: I'm not sure
if he's still doing it,
because this was 1986.
He's probably
retired by this time,
but he eventually got
back to flying status.
But this was a great case.
And again, if it had been
investigated properly
at the time-- there
are two radar tracks,
the one the FAA kept, and
then they saw the object also
on their on-board radar.
So there were two
separate radar sightings.
There apparently
is a single feed
that goes into the
air defense radar that
also goes to the FAA radar.
They have different
discriminators on them,
so you don't get the
same sort of things.
And I communicated with Peterson
Field Cheyenne Mountain to see
if I could learn anything about
it but couldn't-- couldn't find
out if there was a
different radar feed.
Getting two
different radar feeds
would be an important
thing as opposed
to a single feed that was split
into two different arenas.
But you do have two
separate radars.
The only thing that would
have made it better--
if their pictures had come out.
>>NOORY: Yes, exactly.
What does this tell you, Kevin?
I mean, I'm sure deep down
inside you've concluded
some things about all of this.
Maybe you haven't
published it yet,
but I have a
feeling, a suspicion,
your gut is telling
you something.
What is that?
>>RANDLE: It's very clear that
the United States government
has manipulated the data to lead
us to a specific conclusion,
and you can see that repeatedly.
The Condon Committee,
which was down here
at the University
of Colorado, clearly
had-- from the documentation--
their conclusions
given to them prior.
They accepted the money and
began the investigation.
There were cases that took place
during their investigation,
Shag Harbor being an example,
which is a great case filled
with documentation.
All they did was make
a telephone call,
decide that the
witnesses were teenagers,
and didn't bother
to follow up on it.
This is during
their investigation
they didn't do that.
They concluded that a
UFO sighting in Labrador
in the 1950s was a natural
phenomenon so rare it had never
been seen before or since.
What the hell kind of
an explanation is that?
That could be a flying saucer.
>>NOORY: Of course.
>>RANDLE: An alien spacecraft.
Condon said-- before
he wrote the report--
and he said it in front
of a number of scientists,
that there's nothing
to this, but I'm not
supposed to come to that
conclusion for another 18
months.
There is a letter from an Air
Force officer to the Condon
committee that says we need to
get-- we need to stop this now.
Because if you guys don't
conclude it this way,
we're going to be stuck
investigating these things
for-- it continues on.
This is our chance to end it.
And they said, yeah, OK,
we'll do what you want.
So they followed it.
They said something positive
about the Air Force-- Condon
said something positive about
the Air Force investigation.
But he said it didn't
affect national security,
and they should close
out the investigation
because nothing of a scientific
value would be found.
>>NOORY: That's how they
qualify these things.
>>RANDLE: Yes.
>>NOORY: I want to conclude
this with a little clip
of our friend Apollo 14
astronaut, Edgar Mitchell,
and then we'll come back
and talk very briefly
about a controversy
surrounding that.
Here we go.
>>EDGAR MITCHELL: Let's put
all that aside for a moment,
because we're here to
talk about disclosure.
And what I am
suggesting is it is now
time to put away this embargo of
truth about the alien presence.
And I call upon our
government to open up
like other governments have--
and you will hear about
that this morning--
like the Belgians have,
the French have,
the Brazilians have,
the Argentines, the Mexicans
have all released their files.
It's about time now that
we do the same thing
and become a part of this
planetary community that is now
trying to take our proper role
as a space faring civilization.
>>NOORY: Kevin, Edgar Mitchell
has told me personally
that he has never seen a
UFO, did not see anything
on the moon, but that
he is a staunch believer
that this planet is being
visited by extraterrestrials.
A little controversy
lately where
he was quoted by a
British newspaper
as saying that
extraterrestrials saved us
from a nuclear war between the
United States and the Soviet
Union.
Edgar has said that
is not what I said.
The paper stands behind it.
Bottom line still is
you've got an Apollo 14
astronaut, a man who
walked on the moon, who
believes we're being visited.
>>RANDLE: And he's not
alone in that belief.
There's an awful
lot of astronauts.
There's an awful lot
of military pilots.
of military officers,
a lot of police officers,
astronomers, you name it.
There's a lot of people
who believe that we're
being visited, but they're
very reticent to say anything
because it impacts their career.
>>NOORY: It does.
>>RANDLE: J. Allen
Hynek did a survey
in 1952 of a large
number of astronomers--
whether they had seen something.
A lot of them didn't even want
to bother with the question,
but some of them
said, yes, we've
seen some very strange
things that are inexplicable.
So we've got a wide range
of people saying it,
but there is, as he
said, an embargo on this.
Because if you say
these things openly,
it impacts your career--
with the exception
maybe of James A. Van Allen.
And I had an opportunity
to interview him right
after we began the
Roswell investigation.
And I said to him
about scientists
not being interested in this,
and he was very interested
in this.
And we talked about
the Tunguska explosion,
and he was very
interested in that.
But he says, well, if you're
in the middle of Wyoming,
you don't expect to see a zebra.
It doesn't mean
they're not there,
but you don't expect them.
>>NOORY: True.
>>RANDLE: And that
long ago I saw
a report of a zebra running
around loose in Wyoming.
>>NOORY: I love it.
>>RANDLE: Which I
thought was hilarious.
>>NOORY: It does happen.
>>RANDLE: It does happen.
But-- but he wasn't
worried about his career,
because he's James Van Allen.
What are they
going to do to him?
But people who are
not James Van Allen,
they're very hesitant to speak.
And I've had people talk to
me off the record about things
that are extraordinary, but you
can't say anything about it.
You don't want to
violate their confidence.
They were off the record.
But they're telling you
extraordinary things.
And if all that information
was collected properly
and investigated
properly, we'd be
having a different discussion,
which would probably be-- where
do you think they're from?
And are they hostile,
or are they benign?
And if you look at the
history of ufology,
you're going back to the 1940s.
You're saying,
well, they haven't
shown any real hostile
intent to this point,
but maybe they're
very long lived
and they're just
planning the invasion.
I suspect-- I suspect
they're benign, but--
>>NOORY: You never know.
>>RANDLE: You never know.
But-- but the real point
is the evidence is there,
and every time you
present good evidence,
there is someone on
the other side who
is going to ridicule it,
whether it is proper or not.
And you see this all the time.
Well, this guy's a liar.
Why is he a liar?
Well, he said he saw aliens, and
there is no alien visitation.
Well, you can reject
his testimony,
if you don't like it, but
you cannot reject it for that
reason.
You have to have a better
reason for rejecting it,
because he may really
have seen an alien.
>>NOORY: For people
who want to track you,
Kevin, and follow you,
give us your blog.
>>RANDLE: I do an
awful lot of work
at A Different
Perspective, which
is at kevinrandle.blogspot.com.
And we link to other blogs
that have relevant information.
For example, with the May 5th
extravaganza in Mexico City,
I've linked to a lot
of different places
where you can get
additional information.
They've linked back to me.
So there's a lot of information
about that since May 5th that
would be interesting.
So that's the place to go.
Or you can take a
look at the books,
because I try to get everything
in the books that is relevant.
>>NOORY: And you do.
Lieutenant Colonel,
thank you so much.
>>RANDLE: Thank you.
>>NOORY: It's "The UFO
Dossier" by Kevin Randle.
Folks, I got to
tell you, you know,
that book that my mom
gave me many years ago,
"We Are Not Alone" by
Walter Sullivan, truly
has had an impact on my
life, because I will always
believe we are not alone.
I'm George Noory and thanks
for watching "Beyond Belief."
[THEME MUSIC]